well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're gonna talk about
recession indicators again and leave you
with a ray of sunshine there at the end
so I'm not an economist I really only
looked at a few indicators for me and
that's my personal thing one of which is
the the bond curve which has inverted
that is a sign of an upcoming recession
the other ones I got from my grandma
now she was not an economist either but
she's also never wrong with this
if gold and silver go up and copper goes
down you're heading into hard economic
times that has happened now so and the
reason for that is gold and silver are a
way to take your money and put it into
something tangible that is safe they
kind of taking your money out of the
financial game for a little bit and
putting it into something that's going
to hold value copper is an industrial
metal used in a lot of new construction
so if you see the price following that
means demand is falling which means
there's less construction okay so all
that's happened so when that happened I
went and started talking to people and
looking at the indicators that they use
and then got online and look at what the
actual economists are saying it's pretty
much all bad just go ahead and spoiler
alert okay so the University of Michigan
does a survey of consumers this is that
consumer confidence you hear people talk
about nobody knows what it means
they basically ask people you know how
do you feel it's going the numbers
dropped like a rock I know somebody out
there that is in favor of the trade wars
is going to say but the Bureau of
Economic Analysis says otherwise and
Trump said that consumer confidence is
fine yeah their numbers are from July
they're using old data
Michigan's numbers are from August
okay the GDP which is the total value of
finished goods and services produced in
the u.s. that is at a two percent growth
for the second quarter of 2019 it was a
three percent during the first quarter
so it's slowing down we see we see that
manufacturing growth is at the lowest
levels in ten years that's that's a
really good indication freight shipments
have dropped like rock the people in
that industry are predicting a negative
GDP as in the economy is actually
shrinking by the end of the year private
domestic investments have fallen by five
percent that that's from a real
economist I really don't actually know
how significant that is but it seems
significant at the time when I was
looking at it the other one is that the
S&P 500 which is a Index it's they take
the 500 largest companies they weight
them by a capitalization and a whole
bunch of other stuff and they use that
to project how the stock market is doing
now they put out estimates of earnings
growth so how much more money they're
going to make and they revise these
estimates constantly and they are
dropping every time they revise them
that the numbers are going down and that
is also a very very good indication that
we are headed into a recession so we're
on our way there what does that mean for
us for normal people you know when you
hear most of this this is measuring the
sense of the economy by how well the
rich are doing what does it mean for
normal folk normally wages don't get cut
but layoffs occur
at the same time there are some benefits
to those that are on the lower end of
the socio-economic ladder the first is
that toys get cheaper and buy toys I
don't mean toys for children I mean you
know your neighbor that bought two jet
skis and took them out three times in
the last five years probably gonna sell
them really cheap so if you have some
money put away stuff like that you'll be
able to get deals on the other thing is
that if you've been planning on
bootstrapping and starting your own
company now may not be the brightest
time to start it but it may be the best
time to start getting the equipment I
know a guy that during the Great
Recession of 2008 he people thought he
lost his mind because he went out and
bought to work trucks
he'd been squirreling away money for
years to start his own landscaping
company every time one went out of
business well he would show up and buy
their weed whackers and lawn mowers or
whatever really cheaply because he knew
they were well-maintained he knew they
were industrial-grade
and basically he got his company started
with less investment than he had planned
so you do have that opportunity if you
have planned this may be the time to get
in the game so to speak to get in the
financial game the other thing is
getting a home I'm not talking about a
dream home I'm not talking about the
home in the good neighborhood that is
completely remodeled and every I'm not
talking about that one that one's not
going to drop more than likely but the
less than perfect home the home that
needs to be updated because it has
cabinets from the 70s those they're
gonna go down and value which means you
may be able to get your starter home
your first home purchase you may be able
to get that done during the recession
so leaving on a happy note in some ways
in other ways you do have to understand
that somebody is losing out on those
deals but this is all over this trade
war and the trade war is based on the
idea that we can't have a trade deficit
most economists will tell you a trade
deficit is not necessarily a bad thing
the other thing that they keep harping
about is that China's economy will
eventually be bigger than ours they have
four times the population I may not be
an economist but I would imagine that on
a long enough timeline that's a
certainty it's one of those things where
if we continue finding something that is
probably inevitable we may end up
hurting ourselves anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night